second
any discussion
roll call Mr Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald
aye Mr Henderson aye Ms Merricks aye Mr
Mays yes Mr Moon
Mr Dallas hi I think I got us something
going right
sorry about that if y'all out streaming
it just got online if you're having
issues with getting it to come up
tonight so welcome and we are already
proceeded with our business
um at this point at the last motion at
this point
um Dr Jones not here but I don't think
there are any additions to the agenda so
no motion to prove
so move a second
any discussion
roll call please Mr Burton aye Mr
Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks aye Mr Mills yes Mr Moon Mr
Dallas
aye
consent agenda
if we approved
any discussion on any of the items in
the consent agenda
roll call please Mr Burton aye Mr
Fitzgerald asked Henderson is Merricks
all right Mr mayles yes Mr Moon all
right
thank
you okay
we'll move on to public presentations
character word of the month
Happy Valentine's by the way
would you rather be anywhere else other
than here for Valentine's Day oh this is
perfectly fine
thank you was on the softball field
earlier excited to come here
so the character order for the month is
self-control what is self-control in
simple terms is just being able to
control your emotions but why is this
important it's important because it goes
along with kindness it's important
because when you get angry at someone
you don't lash out at them you talk
about it rationally
you keep your anger under control and
you think before you speak self-control
is thinking before you speak
people with good self-control are
self-disciplined and they know right
from wrong
self-control is putting your own
feelings aside for other people and it's
cheering for your teammates even when
you don't get to play and it's happy for
those that have reached the goal that
you did not
self-control is learning to let what
others say or think about you not bother
you self-control is being the bigger
person and self-control is kindness and
before I leave I just wanted to take
this time to thank you all for the
opportunity to do this because with
softball season starting back up I don't
know if I'll be able to come back and I
already know that my senior night is
scheduled for the night that we all get
recognized so in case I don't get to
come back I just wanted to thank y'all
for letting me to do this because I've
enjoyed it so much
thank you I think you still have some
more fun to do
they'll find you there's still some work
a little bit later this spring you can
get you can do it be during a school day
thank you
I want to recognize some students now
miss Patty
where are we recognizing them from
Dan River
chairman Dahl school board members
Dr Jones good evening it's my pleasure
to recognize a student this evening in
the category of CTE business I invite
the principal of Dan River High School
Mrs Anastasia rumel to come forward to
join Miss Kelly Merricks
School Board member for the Dan River
Region
the student who I'll be recognizing is
Colin Niels
with Colin Mills please come forward
this certificate of excellence is
presented to Colin meals in recognition
and appreciation for outstanding
achievement for placing third in the
2022 Virginia Microsoft Office
specialist state championship in word
2019 granted this 14th day of February
2023 by the Pennsylvania County School
Board School board chairman Calvin Doss
and School Board Vice chairman Kelly
Merricks congratulations Colin
foreign
[Applause]
congratulations
okay next we have recognition for Korean
technical Education Month
you doing MS penny yes sir
Governor Glenn yonkin has designated
February 2023 as Career and Technical
Education Month in the Commonwealth
Across the Nation Career and Technical
education CTE is celebrated in February
to recognize the achievements and
accomplishments of CTE programs
is theme for 2023 celebrate today own
tomorrow
provides Virginia schools an opportunity
to showcase success stories of
excellence and communicate The crucial
role that CTE plays in preparing a
highly skilled Workforce for Virginia's
economy
thank you
thank you Miss Patty
I have a what I like to give out it is
the school board clerk Appreciation Week
it's given out by the Virginia State
School Board Association and it reads an
appreciation to your dedication and hard
work for the public education through
continued service to the students of the
Commonwealth of Virginia this is to miss
Janet Hancock from the vsba David
Woodward vsba president Gena Patterson
executive director
so congratulations
[Applause]
turn it around hold it up
and the next one I have is for the
deputy Clerk
and it's an appreciation for dedication
and hard work for public education
through continued service to the
students of the Commonwealth of Virginia
and this is presented to miss Tracy
Worley the Miss World
[Music]
[Laughter]
okay
man these two are the hardest working
ladies you'll ever see and I can't tell
you how much we appreciate them and
they'll appreciate if all they do thank
both of y'all
Dr Jones
you run off on me
on behalf of the staff of Pennsylvania
County Schools we'd like to recognize
our school board this evening for their
leadership and consistency over this
past year but for the past few years you
have been consistent in your and strong
in your leadership in guiding us through
some difficult times someone mentioned
this afternoon in our budget meeting
earlier that that we have been in school
probably more than most divisions during
the co or were in school school more
than most School divisions in the past
but then when we experienced covet and
that's because your leadership and we
greatly appreciate that you allow us to
to to do our jobs
um and you provide the support and
structure needed so we greatly
appreciate that I'd like to ask you all
if you would to come down so we can get
a picture of the board as I call your
names the first is Mr J Samuel Burton
Mr Calvin Doss
Mr Willie Fitzgerald
Mr George Henderson
Mrs Kelly Merricks Mr Kevin Mills and Mr
Don Moon
thank you
absolutely sure
all right you might get the students
foreign
also at your places board members uh
there are a few gifts that that staff
members have provided so
again we greatly appreciate all you do
thank you Dr Jones we would appreciate
all y'all what y'all do y'all make our
job easy because of the hard work y'all
do
and we really appreciate that
you had known me back I didn't see you
to start with Dr Jessica Jones
um peas up next I thought I didn't see
you but I do see your hand back there
good to see you again where's all the
snow ends
what was the other one I want my car on
my way to work but I have enough to make
a Snowman by the time I got there it was
a crying shame yeah so uh hopefully I
told people we ain't living right so
maybe we need to make some kind of
changes
you know me and my wife I saw I happen
to be up watching it do it and it was
about 1 30 in the morning that was
putting it down a little bit of
everything right and I told him my wife
talking about and I said you know we
have missed a lot of snow opportunities
this year but it's been plenty wet yeah
it just hasn't been cold but I'm glad
that's right because this summer when
we're all going it's all yeah you know
we're gonna have and it's dry right
that's right we're gonna have enough
water in the water table but uh but we
really would like to have a little bit
of a reprieve if you would just to kill
off the viruses
just saying that out loud
I will also say good evening to you all
happy Valentine's Day I do not come
bearing gifts of physical but man gifts
from my heart so Dr Jones people do
appreciate the two-hour delay that we
had in the midst of the snow and other
issues that we're experiencing so thank
you sir for that it did feel like a snow
day to some when we did get to work
about two hours late
but hopefully we will be able to
experience some of that before
Springtime arrives but if not we know
there's a greater purpose for it and
we'll continue to work towards whoever
that is maybe it might be the last day
of school yeah 8 which is how long the
way now I guarantee you all know
look at that I tell you y'all know the
lottery numbers too can you hook me up
that's graduation
well I I will talk to you tonight just a
little bit as a follow-up uh last month
I came before you before signing died
our legislative session beginning and
then uh we just literally went through
crossover week this past week and I know
that Dr Jones is probably sharing some
things with you as far as the
legislative updates I will I will go
ahead and say it was unfortunate that
the house rejected the majority of any
bills that dealt with money particularly
when it was education there were 72
Senate bills and 121 house bills and
just looking at just different ones I
will say it was good to see that they
approved a two percent uh pay increase
and as long as the state gives their
share of the locality can give their
match because that's a hot button issue
is making sure that we are at or above
the national average that was actually a
bill this year brought before the
general assembly and it was unanimously
rejected and it's unfortunate to see
that because you you all know and I just
heard you say your staff is what makes
your job easier and when you can
compence them more to bring them up to
where they can be comparable with
everybody else at a national level we
should do all that we can to support
that for all across the division
in addition to that there should be in
conference the conversation about how to
restore that 200 million dollar
unfortunate Heir that was created
looking at the whole harmless piece that
was put in by Governor northam's
Administration that slightly got
overlooked unfortunately so hopefully
there will be no issues coming forward
and I know that again you had a budget
meeting we'll continue to have those and
being able to to navigate the tumultuous
Waters that are existing for you my hat
is off to you and I thank you for the
work that you do and I don't think that
you hear that enough there are a lot of
decisions that have to be made
financially as well as health and safety
and you all try to get in front of the
issues as best you can so know that we
do acknowledge that we do see it and we
appreciate that and we do what we can on
our end to Advocate to our legislators
in the community for folks to know to
get behind and support what you do
because you're doing what is right by us
as a community and we thank you for that
one of the other pieces before I take my
seat I wanted to share with you an
initiative that is coming from Governor
Younkin through the Department of
Education it's a teacher apprenticeship
program
the the federal funding is going to
support that it was officially accepted
in January and it's an opportunity to
grow your own Educators in your own
School Division and there's still
opportunity for you to be able to join
with that I do have two copies of the
document if I can provide those to you
all for you to look at and continue to
delve into but it's a way for you to get
funding to help out and assist Educators
already in your school division could be
AIDS they're working towards their
bachelor's degree it could be substitute
teachers it could also be those that you
know their career switchers and they're
like okay maybe I want to get my foot or
my toe at least wet in this water and
then be able to get paid while they're
on the job and then move forward with
that to become a full-time educator in
your school division so I feel like this
is a really good opportunity for you all
to look at how can we close that gap on
not just teacher recruitment but teacher
recruitment as well as retention so I'll
bring these to you and I will answer any
questions that you have at this time
anybody have any questions
Dr Jones
and thank you again thank you yes sir
have a good evening
okay
um
up next would be the
2023-2024 budget update
Mr Burton You're the chair of that
budget we're only setting in Miss
Wiley's setting in the honestly I don't
have any I know we don't have a budget
from the state
I know they're a long ways apart
too many buses and none of them will
close right
good evening um I do not have an update
for you tonight we just met briefly
earlier we do expect tomorrow to receive
the Senate and House versions and we're
anywhere with the governor's version
we're looking at about 3 million dollars
in state money on up to four and a half
million through the Senate version so um
pretty big range there
um not sure what we'll be able to do yet
and we do not know what um we'll be
asking our Board of Supervisors for but
we are hopeful if we get back into 23 we
do want to talk about the the era that
has been mentioned tonight and we
believe that the general assembly will
make us whole for fiscal year 23. not
real sure how that's going to look yet
but um hopefully we'll get some more
information on that tomorrow
but I do not at this time see
um any motion or any moves to correct
things for 24.
so I think we talked tonight in the
budget committee meeting about our only
saving grace there would be
um hopefully that when the House and
Senate come together they will talk more
about removing the support cap that has
been um
it has taken a lot of money away from
school divisions since the recession
questions of me I know we're working
through a lot of things right now lots
of initiatives I think the budget
committee is presenting tonight its
priority list we sent that out to staff
last week and that's about five million
dollars worth of initiatives and you can
see that already we do not have enough
money for that so
we never have enough money but it
doesn't hurt to ask
exactly but the the
we met tonight the initiative the
initiatives will be have been being sent
to the full board to look at
keep in mind uh I was trying to say
several years it's not only the amount
of money we get is how it's sent to us
and how we can use it yes we're having a
meeting with the board of supervisor
next week to discuss the budget and then
we'll have another budget meeting on
March the 9th hopefully by that time
we'll have some information from the
state where we can make some pretty
friend decisions
you know the members of that budget
committee Anthony Mr Fitzgerald
and we are in short session of course
that ends on February 25th and we would
certainly like to have a budget at that
time but I'm not sure that that's going
to happen
this time of year I always um have
sympathy for
a department
because it looks like as soon as you
spend the week or a week and a half
setting things up then they change them
you have to go back start up that is the
way things work we depending on other
folks to tell you how much money you
spend they spend bye okay
Mr burn this budget could be a half
somebody want to present to the whole
bowl tonight or you want to hold that
till later you have sorry do you have
something you want to present to the
whole board tonight yeah I can't put my
hands on right now
I know y'all had a priority list is that
right
budget initiative list
oh
priorities
we were presenting tonight a budget
for next year there you go
you got it family members my briefcase
but she's right under the current we are
we have approximately 2.8 million
that wouldn't spend and we need 5.89
million and it will vary depend on which
budget we get they have had a list of
priorities that uh secretary Clinton
will have to put in the minutes
so
the committee you're going to pass this
to the board for us to vote on right Mr
Burton
so you want to slow down I don't think
we take action we'll take action like
that
yeah until we get until we get some more
important information
okay thank you Miss Berg so everybody
has the list now right
but hey everybody else in there
all right anybody have any other
comments
I would I want to make just a couple
real quick Mr Henderson Mr Fitzgerald
myself went to Richmond
um at the end of January to the
legislative conference or the capital
conference for the vsba
and it's a very informative session for
us because they have the vsba lobbyists
come in and speak the Department of
Education Secretary came in and spoke
and they always give you a lot of good
information about what's going on in
Richmond as far as education goes
and the one thing that really came out
of this particular session was real
obvious the house was going to vote one
way and the Senate was going to vote the
other and there was no compromising
going on that was that was pretty much
the theme of the entire conference was
there was no compromise going on
and it's a little disturbing that we
cannot get our legislators to come on
and get together and do the right thing
and so it's been a
battle
for them and apparently according to
what they told us they've redrawn the
the lines for redistricting this year
and a lot of them are in same districts
right it was several as much as three in
one District have been put in the same
district right that's what they said
so they said it's going to be very
interesting going forward from here
because a lot of them are going to run
against each other or someone were
looking for houses to move to so
I don't know that we've seen the worst
of of what we're going to see yet but it
was very interesting session much
different than normal
and they talked a lot about the 200
million dollar mistake that the state
had made so
um very interesting enough informative
this time
I think y'all got anything I want to say
George
I'm good Mr Burton and I were at a
meeting this week and um delegate um
Marshall
uh told us that to 200 million dollars
would be there it will it will be found
by The Stroke of the pen
it was very interesting though where the
legislature is at right now in the
wrangling that's going on with it so all
right anything else Mr Burton on the
budget yeah
let me say one other thing Mr uh Doss I
believe he told us
delegate Marshall that there were 3 000
new bills presented at this session
three thousand and I think Mr Burton
correct me if I'm wrong like 12 or 1300
of them were Dead on Arrival but that
leaves another 15 1600 bills has got to
be voted on by the end of the session
good luck Yeah well yeah
negotiated they started I think I think
you say yesterday
yeah hopefully by the toward the end of
the month they will come together with
some kind of agreement but that's really
so important we can't really do much
until we know how we're going to get the
funds what we can do what
so it is important to do that it's
Senator Ruff was at the same meeting and
they felt good about that and there is
some money but it just depends on how
that money is going to be
what's the dolls yes I would like to say
that I I got to go by Senator Ruff and
uh Senator Stanley and Derek Adam office
and found another Senator Ruff gonna be
covering pretty much all of Pennsylvania
County
going forward from this redistrument
and I don't know how this is going to be
for us
well I don't know either it's going to
be it's a whole new era coming right
right it's going to be different it's
going to be different
anybody else
on the budget okay up next we have a
report on school safety and student
support Mr Scott in the same old Dr
haymore
having a hard time getting that doctor
good evening on Thursday and Friday
January 5th and 6th the administrators
from each of the County Schools School
psychologists and other division level
leaders joined local law enforcement
officials and representatives from other
school divisions in participating in
crisis response and reunification
training provided by the I love you guys
Foundation under the sponsorship of
Pittsylvania County Sheriff's Office
participants received instruction in the
basic tenets of the standard response
protocol a crisis response and
reunification format based on best
practices developed for use by First
Responders and school divisions in the
wake of a series of school tragedies in
Colorado and other areas of the country
attendees also executed a series of
reunification simulations to practice
the skills and procedures that would be
essential in reuniting students with
their families after emergencies
requiring School evacuation the Insight
gained through this training will be
used by building level administrators in
conducting their emergency preparedness
exercises and by division level teams in
planning the review and revision of
Pittsylvania County Schools crisis
management plan the next scheduled event
in the ongoing school safety
collaboration between Pennsylvania
County schools and the Pennsylvania
County Sheriff's Office
is a joint tabletop training activity
which is scheduled for the afternoon of
April the 6th participants in this event
will be joined by representatives from
other local law enforcement Public
Safety and Fire and Rescue entities who
will contribute their expertise to this
crisis management planning session
and here you'll see
um there are five basic commands that
are part of the standard response
protocol the the idea of the standard
response protocol is to create a common
vocabulary for use by First Responders
and school officials in dealing with
school crises and one of the things that
the
members of the I love you guys
Foundation found as they were doing
research on the school tragedies that
had happened across the nation is that
in many cases that common vocabulary
didn't exist there were a lot of codes
those codes might differ from area to
area and the idea is to create with
these five simple commands hold secure
lockdown evacuate and shelter a common
language that would apply to any
situation that would be understood by
law enforcement and by School leaders by
virtue of the fact that they would all
be in particip in participate in
training together in the use of this
standard response protocol I won't read
for you all of these bullets here you
can read those that deal with some of
the events but basically the idea is to
have everyone speaking a Common Language
or a common vocabulary
and of course this vocabulary is action
based so each of these commands would be
followed by what they're called what
they refer to as terms of the art which
are series of commands and and
directives that tell students and staff
how they should behave in each of these
situations and again I won't read each
of those for you but it's the idea is to
be clear and concise in the directives
that are given when crisis response is
needed and then the last slide that we
have here are some of our participants
who were at our training on the fifth
and sixth our school administrators took
very seriously their roles and Ms
Hancock if you'll click on that play
button there it will show you a little
bit of the role playing that our staff
members participated in
about teachers I need for you to bring
your classes in stand or sit you prefer
to sit you may sit and sit with your
class okay there's lobsters or roles
that you have we have a person at the
dormant Iman that's going to collect
those for from you okay I wish you
accounted for all of your students we
will then students as soon as your
parent gets here and there are lots of
parents lined up to kind of ditch you
they're going to get you and they'll be
able to take you home okay so what's let
the flow happen and you'll be back with
your parents in no time thank you
[Music]
all right
and of course part of preparing for the
event of a crisis not only involves
preparing our staff and not only working
with the entities with which we partner
in the community but it also involves
educating our students not only in how
to respond in the event of a crisis
itself but in the importance of some of
the basic tenets of civil conduct from
day to day and this is where I'm going
to turn things over to Dr haymore Who
will tell you a little bit about some of
the initiatives that she has worked to
bring forward to make some opportunities
available to our students
run and good evening
okay
this is part of my challenge this
evening
starson did such a good job we're going
to hear it again okay
a couple months back board I I was in
front of you talking about an
opportunity that was before our high
school it's called Rachel's Challenge
and I have an update for you uh this
afternoon it may seem like a bit of an
odd pivot based on what Mr Scott was
talking about
but I think it's important that when
we're talking about school safety we
really are attacking it if you will from
all angles from all fronts and this is
one way that we attempted to do just
that so
um fast forward here one more slide okay
a little bit about Rachel's challenges
there the vision and the mission but I
I've prepared a little something in
advance as well
all of this went down the week of
January 23rd high schools hosted
Rachel's Challenge a program of Hope and
inspiration based on the life and the
writings of Rachel Scott she was the
first victim killed in the Columbine
High School shooting
participants are offered a road map if
you will a set of specific principles
that invite personal reflection they
cultivate kindness and compassion and
transform the way we relate to each
other and how we feel about ourselves
racial story has the ability to ignite
change by offering a path forward to
in-school violence bullying and
self-harm
so let's take a look at Rachel's
Challenge and what some of those tenets
were
the picture's a little dark but we have
an opportunity to see our presenter
there his name is JB JB had three
hour-long sessions at each high school
and I had the opportunity to attend all
of them except one I can say every time
I went I got a little something
different out of it each time really was
extraordinary so what is the challenge
asking us to do asking our staff and
asking our students
first number one look for the best in
our others
fairly simple but in doing so you're
accepting you're including others and by
doing so you eliminate prejudice
number two dream big
and don't just dream don't just dream
but in the end write down your goals put
them where you can see them
and keep a journal
number three choose positive influences
lots of hands went up from our high
schoolers they obviously heard that
before
but JB took it a step further not just
to choose a positive influence but
better yet to actually be that positive
influence for others around you
number four
speak with kindness fairly simply put
our words certainly do matter
and last but not least was starting your
own chain reaction and here is where JB
really laid the foundation for future
work with our Rachel Rachel challenge
groups we had a lot of feedback a lot of
pictures that came here's one from
Tunstall high school thank you Mr Bowles
when the presentations were over
students had an opportunity to sign this
pledge saying that they accept those
five principles and they look forward to
putting them forth in their lives
I know after one of our meetings Miss
Hancock had sent a I hope you all will
participate in this and send a request
and hoping to get some feedback from
some of our Representatives who would
like to share
I got to go during my fourth block it
was the third presentation and I had
been hearing about it all day from all
of my friends
and I didn't really know what to expect
but as soon as I got in there I just it
everyone got very serious everyone was
very respectful during the presentation
but it was very moving
and we had students lined up to sign
that banner and accept the challenge and
we have brainstormed on ways to spread
positivity throughout our school and
since it's National kindness week we're
doing kind things every single day at
Tunstall so I just don't get really
really healthy environment there
thank you Mackenzie thank you Matthew
say that I was very proud to
because I had to go with blast but the
last presentation of it because I go to
Governor's School in the morning and
usually you would the schools think of
the underclassmen as a very playful not
taking things too seriously but when we
went into the Rachel's Challenge
presentation I was proud to see that
everybody had an air of seriousness
about them and I was happy to see how
much it actually moved everybody that
went
Matthew what did you think of the
footage from Columbine
it was
definitely something to think about yes
it makes you
almost I'm not going to say realize the
horror of such an event because there's
no way you could know unless you were
there but I feel like it brings a level
of like I said seriousness to an event
that thankfully nobody around this area
has had to deal with and
it helps bring awareness to a situation
that is terrible on all fronts
for sharing Cody I just wanted to expand
a little bit on what Matthew just talked
about he talked about making
mayor the presentation was really moving
in the way that it showed you of
something that you would see on the news
that seems like it's so distant and
wouldn't actually happen to you yourself
but it didn't it can happen and it can
affect you personally if it were to
happen somewhere around here I know the
things we hear about on the news won't
necessarily seem like
they just seem like a news story but I
feel like the presentation really helped
put it in perspective and I feel like
perspective is something that a lot of
people need especially right now as
we're fighting this pandemic of gun
violence within our schools and within
our public places so I feel like the
presentation really helped move us in a
direction to help the students
understand more of what that is and how
it's actually real and affects people
you know day to day that's
nice thank you Cody thank you I know
there were some board members there as
well anybody else want to share any
other quick reflection
all right well in closing for those that
accepted the challenge I did as well we
recognized that a one and done approach
really will not suffice it's not the
answer here for real sustainability we
do look forward to Rachel's Challenge
returning to our high schools hopefully
in the fall and in talking with level
directors and others we certainly hope
to Loop in our middle schools as well
that was something that certainly
resonated with staff and I'm happy to
take any additional questions
growing rituals challenge
if you have any questions
all right thank you all for your time
appreciate it anymore appreciate it Mr
Scott thank you all Mr Dawson
I was very proud of our our students and
our staff I was at two of the
presentations and I know the assistant
superintendents were at others
our students were outstanding that day
and I think they they will accept this
Challenge and I appreciate Mr Scott in
coordinating his work with the safety
protocols the sheriff's department and
administrative staff
I appreciate Miss Dr haymore and the
other assistant superintendents for
bringing this group here I I just think
it was outstanding and it's good to hear
from students that that they they were
appreciated it and they they see value
in what uh this this group brought so uh
just outstanding so thank you all
thank you chairman yes sir I I don't
normally give me a call I got several
calls from administrators that told me
the best training they ever had was one
that
got his root be
bill it was the most important most some
of the best streams ever had it's
unusual if we get those calls so and I
didn't have anybody that attended yours
but I am glad to see that we are moving
as you always have in the Forefront and
being proactive is not reactive
well Mr burden I'm gonna wake up what
you said I had some calls too and talked
to some administrators and they by far
set up some of the best training they've
ever had
so I don't I don't know Scott if you
found it a who what but
thank you all I think it was very
valuable
pause
so I appreciate it
all right does anybody have any
questions on the remaining six deaths
reports I have a couple of questions
concerning the school calendar okay
um one would you all entertain the idea
of having a true half day at
the Smithson at one dismissing at 11 30.
well I say this because the teachers by
the time the students exit the building
you know we all know one o'clock
dismissals take a little bit longer by
the time the students exit the building
the teachers have at most an hour hour
and a half so
work
at one time I think lunch was the issue
with that I don't know if that's still
the case or not
I don't know if it's something you can
look to accelerating to lunch I can't
even so fast right
breakfast runs right into lunch
and then my second question looking at
the calendar I noticed that the end of
the nine weeks in October is October
12th which falls on a Thursday and then
students would come back on Friday for a
whole day and then again
in March the students are dismissed at
one on a Tuesday and then that Friday
they're out of school and I know as
being a former teacher it's quite
difficult to end a lesson
don't see part of your classes and then
you pick back up
so we be consistent and just move those
joining the days that like the October
that Thursday that's on the 12th can we
move that to the 13th that's a Friday
and the March move it to the 14th to go
along with the 15th
Miss Patty did y'all break that up into
exact number of days between them was
that what you did does it have to be
I mean if you moved one day to one side
of it is that really significant
is that something you can go back and
take a look at please
do you mind I kind of get a point I mean
if you can
I know I know there have been times that
semesters were not even Dr Jones we have
a day two more than one semester than
the other one but yeah so okay if you go
back and look at that if it's just a day
until you've shift it one way or the
other and kind of make it work a little
better maybe
y'all mind looking at that
because that still can be adjusted right
that's not said okay
anything else
I think but I mean I really would
encourage looking
something cafeteria to this um we'll
look at it just if you can accelerate
that any
and just it I don't know whatever but
Scott can
share with you on that
I haven't carried any other board
members that have any questions let's
don't go through the calendar again as
much trouble
we went through to get past this time
and then after we got something that
worked on several hours then we changed
some days then and then we went from
nine to six weeks to nine weeks
we do need to settle on something even
if we do these other things look at them
next year yeah so
well hopefully we will get it ironed our
name
yeah
we're gonna have to learn the nine week
one right that's new
but it countless has always been a sole
spot for me Mr bear you know I usually
never vote for them
but
even for her to look at it's going to
take some time
I'm superintendent to talk about doing
lunches and breakfast at different times
a little late year be doing that if
we've already
counted you know
for next year
six to nine I was sure not really going
to change anything so
yeah yeah change change
all right any other questions
no we'll move on to superintendent's
report
yes sir Mr Dawson school board members
uh got some good news in our schools
Annabelle tuck a student at Denver
Middle School
auditioned for
and earned a place in the
Regional band that band will practice on
the 17th 18th and then we'll have a
concert on February the 18th at 4 pm we
congratulate her she placed sixth chair
in the concert band
congratulate her and Mr artist at Dan
River High School also Tunstall High
School Deca chapter competed in the
district 6 events on January the 12th
first place honors Sydney Pritchett and
retail merchandising Riley Tucker in
restaurant food service management
Crystal Edmonds and quick service
restaurant management
uh Mia Davis a human resources
management Brooke Burke and hotel logic
management Skyler Sims an apparel and
accessories marketing Abby lent and
personal financial literacy and faith
more in principles of business
management and administration placing
second Kayla Pritchett in principles of
finance and Mary Gammon in marketing and
Communications and third place honors to
Trey Duncan in principles of business
and management and administration
we also had of Addison hunsicker from
Tunstall high school she received the
Dorothea Henry chapter Dar award and
she'll be presented that later this
month
in your packet we have sales tax
referendum uh information addressed to
the chair of our building committee Mr
Henderson for your information about
priorities there
looking at in working with Mr Hudson and
Mr Scott looks like that we're we've
placed the best fuels there at 14
Schools at 2.5 million dollars HVAC
upgrades and window replacements at
Chatham L perk L South Side Stony Mill
Mount Airy Union Hall at about 35
million dollars classrooms and classroom
editions there and then to connect the
gyms to the main buildings and other
items that were listed as we went out
and and spoke with people about the
sales tax referendum
we also have in that memo information
about how we're going to utilize State
appropriation the state appropriation
this year and end of year funds and
right now we're looking at uh
three full roofs and then a partial roof
that hurt elementary school so a Ruth at
gretnell Twin Springs and south side and
then a partial roof at hurt Elementary
School over the cafeteria Mr Hudson has
worked with an area engineer to come up
with adjusted figures based on on
inflation and as you can see the the
price requirements have gone up
substantially from what we thought just
back last summer to where we are right
now so that will have a great impact on
particularly well on sales tax
referendum funding that comes in but
also on the end of year funds that we
have available and what we can do with
those also in your packet this evening
you all talked about
recognitions of students and how those
individuals are how we recognize
students here at the board meetings that
information is there for you we also
have revised that based upon some
thoughts from you all to include
valuatorians and salutatorians so that
list is there if you have any questions
please let me know
also we had the Southern Regional forum
is on March the 7th please let Mrs
Hancock know if you're interested in
attending and then we have other vsba
conferences
of the 2023
the ESPN conference has been held and
many of you all went to that it's
greatly appreciate that as we mentioned
in the budget meeting to this evening
that we'll provide to you all some
verbiage that you can use as you you
seek out our legislators to talk about
next year's budget any questions for me
this evening
uh thank you all very much in it
no questions for Dr Jones
I know nothing finished business Miss
Merricks and myself and Dr Jones met
with Vaden hunt who is an interim
administrator for the county Mr Dalton
Mr Dudley their chair and vice chair
um to talk about the gun free zone
resolution and we had a very very nice
and
that's not our discussion probably on it
I thought it went very well
um
Mr Hunt did asked if that that March was
tight for them he was looking at
different options for the county
they were looking at different things
and asked could we
um hold off the March implementation
so you know I I think it's appropriate
to do that to give them time to to look
at other things and he wanted to do some
research
so I would like to ask that we just
table that for right now we're going to
have to re-vote on it anyway because it
had the wrong state code in it so I
think at this time I would like to ask
that we just table it until they come
back with what they would like to see or
do and then we'll bring it back at a
later date when that's appropriate and
and fix the code in it Mr Anderson Mr
chairman I think that probably needs to
be in form of emotion and I'll just make
a motion to table it okay
she says we need a motion to delay the
implementation and implementation date
until we bring it back
okay like she needs a date attached to
that no no day just delay it until until
we come back what what was my motion
okay she wants it a little different
okay you good with that I'm good with
that I have a second
any discussion
roll call please Mr Burton uh uh Mr
Fitzgerald uh Mr Henderson aye Ms mayor
aye Mr Mills yeah Mr Moon Mr doc all
right all right I'll move on to a new
business
um up first is a request for a special
project Gretna High School new football
field Press Box I see Mr Moon sitting in
the back
you're gonna pay for it out of your
pocket right
you had in your packet and I think if
you took a minute to look at it there
were some drawings I think from one of
the construction companies local
construction companies that I think is
participating in it right Mr Hudson
um you look you looked at it Miss
Reynolds there is some I.T work because
of the camera systems some electrical
things y'all all agreed it was okay
correct
okay okay
any other discussion on it now it's time
to ask Mr Boone
roll call please Mr Burton aye it's
Gerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms Merricks
aye Mr Mills yes Mr Moon aye Mr dots aye
revision of school board policy djpc
purchasing policy
um Miss poorly said if you have a
question but I believe that's the
updated kind of for State guidelines is
that correct
that's correct okay anybody have any
questions on that
do I have a motion in to approve it was
this first reading I'll prove it now
proven first readings we're going to
waver it improve it just reading
a second any other discussion
roll call please Mr Burton uh
Cheryl uh Mr Henderson aye Ms Mary aye
Mr Mills yeah Mr Moon Mr Doss aye
up next is a letter of intent of
memorandum of understanding for I love
you guys Foundation I think you've seen
some of the stuff they've done this is
to approve you some materials is that
correct Mr Scott
okay I have a motion
so moved
any other discussion
roll call please Mr Burton aye to
Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merrick aye Mr Mills yes Mr Moon
aye next is a request for waive a rental
fees for Community sponsored Middle
School baseball programs we've done that
for other sports this one just started
back since coven and they did not fit
under the ones we had wavered so I have
a motion to waver for those
ocean
second any other discussion
the community group comes up
but
I think we need to be aware of a few
things the questions I got
in the past when my kids were younger it
was always a group for organization if I
understand this this is just
some individuals in each Zone to get the
teams together correct
okay
okay it's groups that have worked with
the High School coaches in the past
right yes that's correct but it's a
little different than other reason it
looks a little different so when they
signed that application they're the ones
got to have the liability
individuals
all right
so I'm gonna guess because the way that
positive reads it also means their
responsible for any damages
is this just based on a baseball
softball
somebody told me it was some softball
too I'm I'm not aware of softball that's
I think is that done under something
else but how'd you all play softball
Miss marriage
under the same type of thing I do yeah
parents like like
the baseball is what came to our
attention Mr Burton okay so Thomas if
it's softball too I don't know that
that's been requested has it
okay all right
the reason I was and it work session
last week uh you and I was having a
discussion about softball and the
enthusiasm Maybe Miss Tennyson Mr
talking about baseball and I couldn't
figure how we're going on baseball this
kind of explains why we got invaded
but any any uh some of the things that
we'll run into I think you may have
commented something like you thought you
was about getting superintendent to go
get a principal to let people come in
and
sign up
oh
that particular person did the same
process
they had done for several years which is
this policy
the problem that they've had the last
two years that who requested the forms
never returned them
now whoever came to you could have been
entirely different that
who who that's part of the prophesive is
communication when they're outside the
building and moves groups
um
it's it will
another thing I got they're going to
custody they got to pay for it and
security right
uh all right
it's going to affect some of our state
because the High School coaches are
going our athletic D is going to have to
help with the schedule
okay
uh one of the things because they're not
connected to the school
you folks are going to get questioned
from time to time because I've had them
over the years too when people get me
able to coach a man with an Umpire a man
something else it's going to be that if
it's named Tunstall Middle School
baseball they're going to call the
school system other superintendent
please when that happens let them know
we don't have any connection except
we're letting them use our facilities
and I know this is going to happen
because it's already happened
there were two people who went to sign
up I was told and then the people that
had to deal with it
then they told you can't play baseball
we can't sign you up coach girls
now that's not the end of our business
if we're doing it this way but they wind
up in office with parents in the school
so just keep in mind if it's related it
says
Cincinnati County Schools you're going
to get calls and stuff that we can't do
anything about
but I don't have a problem yeah one of
the things that happened Mr Burton is
all four schools and I say schools but
all four areas
of stores
had this particular middle school ball
program and they may have had softball
too that wasn't the question when covet
came of course it stopped it all
well when when covert was lifted
the people that were doing it at three
of the schools remained and picked it
back up
the full school that particular person
didn't want to do it anymore so it got
dropped
and of course you know what happens when
one school and it wasn't school I
understand but it was yeah
but three were doing it one way and then
a bunch of people got upset about it
because they didn't understand why
yes yeah so that's kind of what brought
it all to a to an attention of course
then
those people
went to the school and and
tried to get it back started and
honestly it just communication was bad
and it just had to get back so that
everybody got back on the same in the
right place
but it was a collective County group
that started the league and this is
going to be a little bit different and
you're probably going to deal with
different people each year
as people leave their kids leave it'll
be a different group come in behind it I
think you're correct
what you're going to see here though is
is if we had Middle School sports this
would be the team
if we have a get to that point well this
is all a mute point that's right right
but this this in essence it would be the
middle school team
I can't speak for all four schools I can
only speak for one of them
that particular group works very closely
with the with the High School coaches
and and they actually look like three
teams rather than rather than a hospital
so they do and and I was told I don't
know this because I haven't talked to
those two two schools that were doing it
but I was told that the three schools
were doing that I I can't prove it but I
was told that I do know one of them's
doing it
yeah
last year with softball and baseball as
well it's it does it looks like a true
middle school program JV program high
school and they actually this group and
on my job this group last year when I
was hearing about it actually played
some of the local the surrounding
counties middle school teams
they actually went and played those
teams
there's three out of
it yeah three of the four of the in
baseball yes
so I that that's all I you know that
that's kind of how all this came about
Mr Burton and again parents in the
schools that didn't have it got upset
you know how this you know how this
works well that's where they need to
start for all stuff
so where are we at on a vote for that
we need a motion so we need them both
okay so we need a roll call on that then
please Mr
Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms
Mary aye Mr Mills yes Mr Moon aye Mr
Doss aye all right let's see so now we
get down to ten five procurement bed
vehicle lease purchase
that is a is that a bus lease
is that correct
I thought it was
Zach
okay any discussion
I'm gonna abstain on this one
with Hancock because I have a
daughter-in-law that works for the
company that's going to get it although
that had nothing to do with the bidding
but I'm not going to vote so roll call
please Mr Burton uh Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr
Henderson aye Ms
aye Mr Mills yes Mr Moon all right and
Mr Donald yep
uh procurement bid for the maintenance
and I.T Warehouse insulation
a second so any discussion any questions
yeah
we have a motion I need a roll call Mr
Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr
Henderson aye Miss Merrick aye Mr Mr
Mills yes Mr Man Mr Doss aye Mr
Henderson when do you want to have a
building committee meeting
what's next
oh how about five o'clock uh on the next
business meeting
the next Tuesday I think Mr Mills wants
to do something don't you want to do
something on a evaluation Mr meals
next meeting before the meet and right
yeah yeah we need to do something
different
he's got something he wants to do with
it an evaluation that that we had to
move out from this month because of the
budget
so try another one
um
it was Hancock who's on the disciplinary
committee meeting in March
it'll be the same individuals Mr Kevin
me and Sam Mr Mills and who else Mr Moon
Mr Moon you want to do it at five or
four there yeah let's do that all right
can you do that no
long enough Dr Jones plus to do a build
committee because I went up yeah it
should be enough so if we do that at
five y'all can do the the um discipline
at six
you're coming out that'll be the first
Monday in March right yep
I use that emotion from you yes sir
I have a second first Monday Market five
second
any other discussion roll call please Mr
Burton all right Fitzgerald aye Mr
Henderson aye Ms Merricks aye Mr Mills
yeah Mr Moon
aye
I'll entertain a motion Jim ladies
second roll call
apparently
Mr Fitzgerald Mr Henderson
aye Ms Merricks aye Mr Mills yes Mr Moon
Mr Dallas
aye thank y'all have a good rest of your
Valentine Day